---
layout: post
title: Week 11 Routing
---

Learning about routing in Meteor.

-----

#### Routing in Meteor

This week I spent my time learning about how to implement URL routing using Meteor. Routing is a key functionality as it will will allow me to dynamically generate pages using URL parameters, and use different layouts for each type of page.

The site architecture will be:

- index
- ar
   - occupyboston
   - invisiblemonuments
   - etc

The index page is the documentation site, which will be served if someone visits the main URL, with a map and link to the blog. The AR page will house the Javascript function that detects geolocation, and re-routes to the appropriate URL.

There are two major routing libraries in Meteor: [Flow Router](https://atmospherejs.com/meteorhacks/flow-router) and [Iron:Router](http://iron-meteor.github.io/iron-router/). I tried out both and ultimately decided to use Iron:router.

#### Flow Router

This routing library is rigorously tested and was recommended by the folks at the Meteor.js meetup that I attended last month. It's designed for client-side, non-reactive routing. The advice from the Meteor meetup was that Flow Router has a slightly steeper learning curve, but it has a design that enforces best practices - the application is unlikely to break for mysterious reasons, or work improperly. The limitation is that it must be used with another routing library for server-side routing, such as [Picker](https://github.com/meteorhacks/picker).


#### Iron:Router

Iron Router is the best-documented router for Meteor, and also has the largest user base. What interested me in it is the extensive set of websites for getting started with the library. I tried out Flow Router and found the examples difficult to translate to my application but had success with a [tutorial for Iron Router](https://www.codetutorial.io/meteor-routing-and-layout/). It also appeals to me to be able to use the same router for server-side routing, as the geolocation function will utilize a server-side route to the appropriate database of tweets. 

I was able to get up and running with a two-page website and Iron Router, though I am still troubleshooting some issue with the AR script.

#### Templating and CSS

I'm using the standard templating language, [Spacebars](http://meteorcapture.com/spacebars/), for my application, and installed the Twitter Bootstrap CSS framework.

#### Next directions

Once I have fixed the bugs caused by the new site architecture, I will move on to creating the geolocative function for the AR page and re-routing to a sub-page that will display a particular hashtag.
	